First, I‘ll speak in Hindi language
and then in English language.
Today we have assembled here to worship Shri Maha Deva,
Shri Shiva Shankar.
In the name of Shankarji,
many organizations have come up in this world.
Because of Adi Shankaracharya’s emphasis,
worshipping ShivJi is being done by people in a big way.
And in Southern India two types of sects have come up:
one which is called as Shaivites,
and the other are calles as Vaishnavites.
Now Shaivites are the worshippers of Lord Shiva
and the Vaishnavites, who worship Lord Vishnu.
In our country we are expert in dividing ourselves.
We divide Deities as well;
and when we try to reunite them, then things take a very bad  shape.
For example, a new thing has come up, by name Ayyappa.
It is a very wrong thing.
And in that it is shown that,
that when Lord Vishnu assumed the form of "Mohini",
then she got a child from Lord Shiva.
Is it possible by any chance?
Such nonsensical beliefs are generally spread in our country,
And then different groups are formed on those beliefs.
When Indians find some or other reason to fight,
they become very happy.
If they have nothing to fight over,
then, they create something from their own imaginations.
So these two things are connected with each other
as sun is with sun light,
word with its meaning, moon with moonlight.
Meaning that the `Sopan Marga’ which has been created,
which we, call as sushumna nadi, which is central path,
is the path of Lord Vishnu.
And through this path we attain the Shiva Tattva.
So Shiva tattwa is the destination to Shiva,
and the path is made by Lord Vishnu.
To create this path Vishnuji and Adishakti have taken efforts.
Lord Shiva has no role in it:
He sits comfortably in his Seat,
not bothering about anyone who comes or doesn't come.
So, to attain this Shiva tattwa,
we should go through this Vishnu path (Sushumna path)
and for that, the several chakras (centres) in us,
have to be corrected first.
When the centers are corrected,
our Vishnu path opens up.
And along with that, we gradually start ascending.
I have told about all these centers, many a times.
But, there is a center in Heart also, which we call `Left Heart’.
This is not the chakra of the heart (central heart),
it is just the heart,
which reflects the reflection of Mahadeva.
The abode of Shiva is above everything,
beyond the mind, beyond the thoughts.
To attain this kind of tatwa (principle),
first and foremost we should pay attention,
is to see how pure our heart is.
Inside our heart, we allow a lot dirt to grow.
For example, we feel jeolous of someone.
Feeling jeolous - in the sense, if somebody has been evil to you,
might have harmed you also, troubled you.
But there is no use becoming jeolous of them.
If your heart is clean
then the mirror in which the God almighty's reflection is going to fall,
will be very clear.
But if you are full of jealousy,
then the mirror will not remain clean
and the reflection of God will also not be perfect.
To have enmity towards anyone
and towards anyone to have in the heart
any kind of miserable thoughts or ill feeling,
is very wrong.
That is why Christ has said to forgive everyone.
To forgive is extremely important.
And before and after Christ many saints have said the same thing,
that forgive everybody.
The moment you forgive, immediately Lord Shiva,
takes the situation in His hands.
The subtlest power of all is that of Shri Mahadev.
And He, then completely punishes him,
totally punishes him.
This is the work of Lord Mahadev, not yours.
Therefore to be jealous of anyone is very bad.
But I find that there is lot of jealousy even in Sahaja Yoga.
Sahaja Yogis are jealous of one another.
If one person is made trustee, the other one is not,
then he is jealous.
This trusteeship and all have no meaning,
you all know it is a myth.
It is all your Mother's drama
and She has spread a web of maya.
Even then the mind of the people gets corrupted;
For one mind gets disturbed
and for the other the heart gets disturbed!
I do not understand what should I do!
Such a big work is happening in so many countries,
so I can communicate with any one person only, right?
However, things are getting sorted out slowly,
but still you will be surprised
that even now there is lot of discussion
about who is the leader and who is what?
Second thing is, for us, for Indians,
a "blessing" is
the jealousy is in money matters.
Even in Sahaja Yoga there is jealousy on money matters.
Someone has got more money and some less.
While doing Sahaja work also
people see how much money one gets,
and who gives how much money?
If a person's heart gets involved with money
he becomes useless for Sahaja Yoga.
Because his heart gets covered with materialism.
If any kind of materialism has enveloped your heart,
then it is very difficult for you to ascend.
This is the speciality of our country.
I have not seen it so much in foreign countries.
But here it is prominent.
I think, in Russia and Eastern Block countries
there is very little of wealth,
but they are not bothered at all.
They don't think about money at all.
But their heart is so pure, so very pure.
And only with the pure heart, devotion (bhakti) is possible.
We all, before doing prayers, wash our feet and take bath.
But bathing our heart is possible
if we could ask God,
that whatever negativities are there within us,
to please remove them and purify us,
then it will be much better.
The third thing is the negativity within us,
which we call as six enemies (shadripu),
Shri Krishna has emphasised that krodha (anger) is the worst thing.
Everything emanates from anger.
A person shows anger initially,
then he gets infatuated.
Then he thinks: "Why did I say all that, I should not have said it",
and so on.
But he goes out of self-control, when he gets angry.
In the fit of anger he loses control over himself.
He goes out of self-control
and he throw words, which are meaningless.
The dirt he has been accumalating since long in his heart,
comes out of his mouth.
We have to beware of this krodha
"Why does this anger come?" - we should pay attention to this,
that why do we get angry.
There are some who are angry with a particular person,
there are some who are angry with the society.
Like this, people show their anger in different ways.
Why does this anger come to us?
Why do we get angry? - we should think that.
Many people have told Me that,
"Mother, if someone speaks against You, we get very angry".
I feel like laughing at this.
If anybody talks against Me, I really feel like laughing.
Because there is no meaning. What is there to talk against Me?
I am just sharing my love, even then if they speak against Me.
What can be done?
But some people have crooked mind,
so we should only pity them.
We have to think that such a person is a big fool.
When a person is full of anger, then our attitude towards him,
should be deeply compassionate.
This attitude may also cool down his anger.
In our country there are angry people of different types.
There are institutions for that
who spread with their anger: "Hit this person, hit that person",
"Beat up this person, beat up that person".
And this is also becoming an issue at the social level.
This is a very dangerous situation.
To beat and thrash people,
and for that purpose to form an army
or prepare some weapons to beat and hurt people
is very terrifying.
However, for protection, a person is equipped with these weapons,
it is not a big deal.
But, if he is a devotee of the God almighty,
he doent require these weapons.
This kind of a person is always protected.
When within a person Shri Mahadev resides,
Who can dare to touch such a person,
who can destroy him?
Whatever you do, however you trouble him,
still that person cannot be destroyed.
But those who harass them, will get destroyed themselves.
When the complete trust regarding this will come within you,
that whoever is troubling you will get destroyed,
then you will keep your heart totally pure and clean..
This work can happen only in a clean heart,
because Shri Shiva resides in our heart, as reflection,
and the reflection falls better on a cleaner mirror.
Shiva Ji's anger is a one time job,
or rather people say that He gets angry only once.
But I have seen him getting angry many a times,
because it is His right.
He has a right to be angry.
If anyone works against Adi Shakti,
then Shiv Ji has very long hands.
Without listening to anyone, He finishes such a person.
Because he knows that Shri Adi Shakti will not do anything Herself.
She is not going to punish anyone at all,
and She will forgive everyone.
So, His hands are so long,
that there is no limit to them
and when those hands start lashing, then nobody can stop them.
Who is above Him?
He has got his own protocols,
which you can neither change nor go beyond.
This is how you should understand that in your individual life
In Sahaja Yoga you have to follow only Lord Shiva.
Because, if you don't follow Him, firstly,
You will get heart problems.
The first thing will be heart disease.
It works out in two ways.
Firstly with excessive anger the heart catches,
and secondly, after the anger if a person repents,
then he gets the disease called "angina".
This is how both the things are useless.
But anger doesn't go just by words.
This is something like taking alcohol.
It becomes a habit to get angry.
Without his knowledge, his face gets swollen,
he gets extremly angry and no one can control him.
So, I thought that if you sit before the mirror
and get angry on yourself,
rebuke yourself with few angry words
and by sitting in front of the mirror if you say:
"There cannot be a greater fool than me",
then perhaps you may get rid of your anger.
I am saying might be possible,
because at times, these problems are so intricate,
that it is very difficult to solve them.
Further, it has been observed
that the more we focus our attention on something
and we react to it...
Someone says something and we react instantly to it -
this custom is more in the foreign countries.
For example there is a carpet -
immediately they will say, “I don’t like it, I like it.”
Who are you to say all this?
Nowadays it`s a fashion to say: "I like it, I don’t like it",
as if every person were a renowned master
who says `I like it’, `I don’t like it’.
This should not be said.
Saying this is the indication of your bad Agnya.
What do you think of yourself
that you are saying "I like it, I don't like it".
You do not have a right to like or dislike any of the things.
Supposing, some poor man gives you with affection,
some very beautiful flowers,
and you will say "sir, I don't like this flowers".
You are unable to understand the hidden emotions behind
this act
because Shiva Tattva is absent in you.
Even if it is a very smaal thing,
which has been given to you by a poor person,
and you don't,
recognise the feeling attached to the emotion,
and how lovingly he has given you that.
For that in India we have the example of Sudama, has been shown.
That how He arrived with roasted rice to meet Shri Krishna.
And how Shri Krishna honoured Him.
Anything presented with the feelings of love
is exactly like, a piece of glass,
becomes a shining mirror when paras (touch stone) is applied to it
similarly, if you have feelings of love for someone,
a very beautiful and good feeling, but you have no money,
then, even if you gift that person a very small thing, then
the other person should think "aha! what an excellent thing is this"
But, this feeling of love gives a subtle sight to the person.
which can be called as artistic.
artistic qualities emanates from it.
When art is visible from it,
you start thinking how artistic thing is this.
This art is the art of love, this is the art of love.
By this art you can clearly see that,
how much of love is there in this person?
How affectionate he is.
How loving he is, what a gentleman is he, what a good person is he.
When you start seeing this quality in others
then you will look within yourself,
and you will start thinking "What am I?”
“Do I have that much of love?”
“do I have this gentleman qualities"?
"Do I have all this goodness within me,
or am I rendering lip service only"?
and thus misleading the people"?
Actually, we are misleading ourselves and none other.
When we are doing wrong things, living a wrong lifestyle,
when in our lives are completely
filled with wrong conceptions,
then we can not make anyone happy.
and definitely not ourselves also.
So from the point of view of “swartha”,
the word "Swa" is very beautiful,"to know thyself" (swa ka arth)
"Swa" means spirit, you must know the meaning of it.
To know the meaning, people worship Shiv Ji.
But I have seen that the worshipers of Shiva are very hot tempered,
very ill tempered , very miserly and what not.
No deity is as generous Shiv JI, no one is as loving as ShivJi.
This source of love which is flowing today all around,
is emanating from His Holy feet.
It is because of Him, this work is happening.
that human beings are bathing in the ocean of love in Sahaja Yoga.
In Sahaja Yoga after Self-realization, when you attain that state,
then you,
the state of say Jiva Atma,
or your,
attention,
your attention gets engrossed in the lotus feet of Shiv Ji.
And as soon as it gets engrossed in Shiv Ji's lotus feet,
what happens is within you,
whatever qualities aaaa of five elements are there,
they also become very subtle.
Already, I have told you about the four elements,
but the fifth one, which is called ‘Ether’ in English,
I didn’t tell about that, here it is called akash tatva.
Akash tatva is that, when a seeker attains the subtle state,
then he attains the Subtlety of Ether element.
That akash which is etherial, that akash,
need not be activated also.
If a person has any problem or any trouble,
then through this all pervading power,
of akash tatva, which is omnipresent,
Your attention immediately reaches, where it is required.
It is an amazing thing, but it happens and happened also.
people may call it miracle, but it is not so.
In Sahaja Yoga if your Shiva tatva is awakened,
then all the subtle qualities,
the subtlest of the subtle quality,
the emotions and the state within you gets awakened.
Therefore it is necessary for us to, first of all  purify our heart.
Now, so far I have talked to you, about three enemies.
Now, the fourth enemy present within us is madha.
Madha means "Ego".
When this ego effects women, they start walking like men.
Then they cannot walk like women because of the pride.
"I am something very special" kind of feeling.
supposing a girl  either comes from a very rich family,
or she is very beautiful,
or very well educated, what ever the reason be,
if she gets effected by ego,
then woman, starts walking like a man.
And when a man is effected by ego, he starts walking like a woman.
Meaning, such a man makes himself up,
for hours sits before the mirror, combs his hair, does this and that
does all kinds of feminine actions.
To dress up is the job of the woman.
while walking also he doesn't walk straight.
He walks in a peculier fashion.
From behind, if you see him, you will feel as if
a lady is walking in a male dress,
So, when,
a man gets intoxicated with this , ego, (madha)
then he is in his own world.
And he starts swaying like an intoxicated elephant
All their activities are different and prominent.
Whether they talk, or they don't talk, or how they sit
in every action it is apparent that,
they have some kind of ego within them.
It is difficult to understand the cause of their ego.
what makes them think that they are special.
All these things are insignificant.
It has no meaning at all.
In Sahaja they have no meaning at all.
And so that is why (laughs)
to believe in the kind of things,
that "we are something special", then you just end up to be nothing.
You do not remain to be special, you are nothing.
It means, its not wise to have any imagination about self
that I am very rich or I am something great.
Now even the poor people suffer from ego element;
Even the dalits are becoming egoistic, Its beyond understanding:
They talk as if they are something very great.
What are you as an individual?
A devotee of God Almighty.
You are Sahaja Yogis, who believe in God.
To think about yourself like that,
is to go away from the state of joy, (anand).
because the power of Shiva takes the seeker to the state of joy.
To get engrossed in the state of joy, a man
worships Lord Shiva.
But I have seen that most of the Shiva bhaktas
are filthy type of people, no one can dare to talk to them.
What is the use?
Because the are woeshipping Sakshat Natraj,
from whom emanates all form of arts,
extremely joyful and embodiment of permanent joy,
before Him, how could these pseudo devotees be called His bhaktas?
They hang such a big linga in their neck,
that could give heart attack.
What is the need for that?
You are yourself the sakshat linga swarupa.
Without becoming that, they, who are worshipping Shiva claim that,
"we are Shiva Bhaktas".
They do Shiva bhakti and also fight.
And for this they have different marks.
Shiva bhaktas will use sandal pwder across the forehead,
and Vishnu bhaktas will use the same along the forehead.
dear brother! what does this mean?
Vertical application on means that we are ascending. Alright,
if you are ascending spiritually,
then after ascending you should be peaceful.
It should be applied both ways, or don't apply at all.
It should have some meaning,
that whatever we are trying to achieve,
should be through this central path.
While passing through this way,
you have to leave behind all the negativities.
Before criticizing others, learn to criticize yourself.
"I am like this, I am like that", say it to yourself,
when you start critisizing yourself, then you will see that
all the bhoots (evil spirits) will run away.
Because we have gathered all these negativities.
by our continuous thought process, by our Agnya;
The excessive use of Agnya, started accumalating negative forces,
every thing became mental projection,
and such a person becomes very troublesome and miserable.
And that misary makes him also miserable.
By giving unhappiness to others, you can never be happy.
It will have its impact on you even if you are a stone.
It will have its impact
and the impact is such that, the person becomes miserable.
As far as a mother is concerned, she always thinks of your welfare.
She thinks of the things which can give you comfort,
give you contentment and give you peace of mind.
Which can give you love,
and you become a saintly person in this world.
This is the method of the Mother.
But this is not Lord Shiva's method.
He tolerates upto a certain limit and then deals so severely
that I get terrified that what is going to happen to this person.
Where shall he reach? What is He doing?
He doesn't think that.
It is not within His nature to think that,
what if he is very bad and very evil, let me forgive him.
Yes, if the person is worthy of His forgiveness, then He forgives.
And those who meditate upon Him continuously,
He blesses them with boons.
But that person who,
basically,
does not want to rectify himself, Lord Shiva sets him right.
This is true.
That’s why we should be scared of Him.
that is why He is called Bhayankar.
When He gets angry, He does not forgive anyone.
But His worst anger comes, during the time of doomsday,
what we call as "A night will come,
when the whole creation will come to an end".
At that time He will destroy everything with his anger.
This time comes, as I have told you, at the time of last judgement.
In this, which path you take to, where you go,
whatever you are doing, all these things are completely.
stored within you.
Every small detail about you,
accordingly sends you either to heaven or to hell.
It is Lord Shiva who sends people to hell; I do not do that.
I have nothing to do with (Narka) Hell.
But Lord Shiva has
He will pull you by your legs and throw you in the hell.
Then you can not say that I am the worshipper of the Mother,
and I am the follower of mother, then why is this happening to me?
I am not instrumental in it.
Once some one calls me Mother, then I can not think ill of him.
But,
If I am the dignity (Maryadas) for Shiva then He is my dignity too.
But, in this regard since we both are totally opposite in nature,
you have to be very careful.
And, the eleven Rudras present in Jesus Christ also is HIM (Shiv ji)
The emotions of the Rudras are the form of Lord Shiva.
that is why, you have to be very careful.
regarding this I have to warn you because,
even in Sahaja Yoga some people come to earn money,
some talk ill of others, some do wrong things,
some do injustice,
Such persons are sieved out of the stream,
But as soon as they are out, they get into the orbit of Lord Shiva.
Then I get the news that, they have gone bankrupt,
this has happened, that has happened, I say now don't tell me this.
Now he himself has out of his protection, then who could save him?
So, you should try to seek your protection in Lord Shiva.
Of course, you are protected by the Mother,
But you should seek Lord Shiva's protection,
For that, I told you about the five things now.
The subtlity of these five element, should be attained by you.
And to achieve that State, its necessary to meditate regularly.
Those who meditate, look totally different
And those who do not meditate look different,
there is no doubt about it.
Now those who meditate but they are not willing to do so,
Whose attention is not there in meditation,
those who do not have understanding or expertise for meditation,
and towards that,
there is a kind of lazyness, then
that meditation is not successful.
there is no benefit in that.
Meditation should be such that, each and every cell of your body,
gets filled with joy, and happiness pours out of them.
Lord Shiva's first and,
most important blessings is that,
he gives you Joy, fills your being with happiness.
just by chanting his name, a person,
should become joyous.
But instead people always behave opposite to it.
Whatever is expected does not happen, this makes me feel surprised,
that the people whom we think to be Shiva bhaktas (devotees),
how could they be so dry personalities? Not possible at all..
There is one more reason for it.
Those who are busy working always, too busy,
they become right sided.
When they become right sided, they get disconnected from Lord Shiva
They move away from Lord Shiva.
and then Shiva shows His powers.
Now You know that goddess Saraswati is the sister of Lord Shiva.
The worshippers of Saraswati,
meaning, the people who read and write, who gather knowledge,
and apart from that, who are interested in art,
who are genuine art lovers,
this kind of people who worship Shri Saraswti, pay homage to her,
they should know first of all that She is Shiv Ji's sister
and you know that sister's relationship is amazing.
If you try to insult His sister,
adopt any bad qualities or talk ill of Her,
for example many people write impure literature or bad books,
many people have knowledge, but they misuse it,
this kind of people can not escape the wrath of Shiv Ji.
Because His sister is very important to Him.
And to insult Her is like greatest sin on earth.
In His view, it is a very big sin.
And for Adi Shakti also His protocols,
are equally rigid, there is no doubt about that.
(please check this, it is falling off, now it is alright)
And now,
Sahaja Yogis, first of all have to pay attention towards themselves.
I do not mean that they should sit before the mirror for hours .
Not at all.
sitting before the mirror always also is considered to be a disease.
I mean to say that you should have attention towards your ‘self’.
look at yourself and see" what are the problems within me"?
“What wrong things am I doing?”
In our Indian culture, (caughs)
the straight path, which has been suggested, should be taken,
Now a days, new Era has come,
so, people think they can live as they want, but it is not so.
Being in India,
you have to be totally according to the Indian culture,
Your life style should remain connected to lndian culture, because,
in Indian culture, great importance is given to Shiva Tattva.
Most important of all is Shiva Tatva.
And Shiva Tattva only has created our boundries of good conduct.
The moment you cross these maryadas, you are finished.
All these rnaryadas which are in our culture
are because of the grace of Lord Shiva.
Whatever has been told to us so far, don't do this, don't do that,
everything big and small,
maryadas (boundreis) has been laid by Lord Shiva.
He is so much concerned about His maryadas that,
The moment you step over these boundries,
you get affected by them.
Now, in the name of Shiva Tattva,
People have created so many wrong ideas.
Like, many people think that by taking Bhang (an intoxicating drink)
you can awaken Shiva Tatva.
Many others who consume liquer think that,
drinking of Alcohol submerges you in Shiva Tattva!
Many wrong ideas of this type, has been created by people,
that, this kind of act is alright for Shiv Ji.
It is fine for Shiv Ji to do that.
For that matter Shiv Ji drank poison also.
Would you also drink poison?
He drank poison to make the whole world free from it.
that is why He used to eat Dhatura (moon flower),
because dhatura contains poison.
Similarly you might have heard that Sai Nath,
used plenty of tobacco,
Aaaaaa! He used to fill it in a pipe and inhale the smoke.
Because, in Maharashtra people are addicted to tobacco, everybody.
Minister also will consume tobacco and
his servant also will consume that.
And minister will tell the servant, "give me tobacco if you have".
To this extent there people are used to tobacco
Although this tobacco is not grown there. (in Maharashtra).
But somehow they are crazy of tobacco.
to great extent people consume tobacco in Maharashtra.
To free people of this tobacco Sainath,
thought," why don't I consume the whole tobacco".
that is why He used to inhale Tobacco,
But people started saying,
"Sainath is taking tobacco, so we also can take it".
Because of these kind of people, He used to consume tobacco
so that the tobacco addiction of these people will come to an end.,
Now, what ever you call it, tobacco is tobacco,
Now, the connection between Lord Shiva and tobacco is not direct,
but it is definite that
He wanted to destroy the tobacco from the whole world.
Now supposing you are the Goddess,
so the job of the Goddess is to eat all the bhoots.
would you also eat Bhoot?
And it is the job of the Goddess is that,
what ever deseases you are having, she absorbs all of them.
So, Would you also do the same?
This is not your job.
Similarly, whatever saints and sages have done,
you neither have the power to do any of that, nor it is your job.
Your duty is to cleanse yourself,
to correct yourself and first attain that state,
then all other matters will be alright.
But, if you don't reach that state, it is useless.
All the rituals you are doing will be a waste.
There are many things, for which the justification
can be done in a wrong manner.
but if we go in the right direction, in right manner,
then first of all we have to purify our hearts.
All these habits, we are addicted to,
these habits also altogether
affect our heart.
So in the olden times, it so happened,
that all the disciples who came were made to sleep  in jungles,
They used to live in jungles among the snakes, scorpions
cobwebs and other animals..
so that you do not get addicted to luxurious life.
At the most they could sleep in huts, which was done with cow dung
They used to live a very simple life, and wear minimum of clothes.
so that they could not be crazy about clothes.
"We want to wear theses cloths, we want this shoes,
we want this food", Sahajayogis should not say all this.
You know that your Mother could live anywhere,
could sleep anywhere; could eat any food.
So this taste bud within us,
In our country, all the Indians are very fond of eating.
Sahaja Yogis also invite each other for dinner and lunch.
Ladies, in perticularly have that thing to say,
when I go somewhere "mother, come to our house for a meal".
I say, its difficult for me to go and eat anywhere.
I can not eat in a hotel, I can not eat anywhere
Even in my own house I eat without salt and sugar.
My taste buds are like that from my childhood.
Whatever is available I eat that.
But our tongue is used to spicy and tangy tastes, all Indians.
Whether they are from from U.P., from Punjab or from South
In the matter of eating, Indians are great experts.
They befool men by serving them good food.
"My husband is fond of this food, my husband is fond of that food"
What to do?
Women will be slaves to their husband and try to please them.
If day and night they keep talking about food,
then they are not Sahaja Yogis
And when I was there in Milan
There during the program of Guru puja, I myself cooked food.
What to do?
For four years I myself cooked there,
because no one else could prepare tasty food.
People would say "Mother, it tastes just like plastic".
In perticular all Indians.
All the Indians who come their for Puja, have to meet me.
as if they have special right over me.
Also they are very critical of the food,
that the food served here is not good.
Now one more new thing has begun among Indians,
that they want attached bath.
Their bathrooms, if you go to their houses and see,
how their parents lived there.
Now, they want attaced bath, that too of the western style.
I am mentioning this today, because I am tired of it.
In Ganapatipule, I provided Western bathrooms for the foreigners.
At first I provided Indian toilets,
thinking that Indians will like Indian style.
And provided English people with western style.
But Indian also demanded western bathrooms.
Now what is this?
I said now a strike is going to start here.
I said, take tumblers and go to jungle, that is what you deserve.
For years together that is how they have been going,
But now they have become big Sahibs, they want attached bathrooms.
The poor English people,
poor foreigners who had come from abroad said,
mother! we prefer Indian style.
Because they are very clean, so give us Indian bathrooms only.
Then I changed the arrangement
and Indians were very happy that they got attached bathrooms.
You should be ashamed of it.
Sahaja Yogis, talking about such things should be ashamed.
Your forefathers used to go to jungle with tumblers
and why do you have this new hobby?
Have you got some disease or any other problem?
They put me in great trouble.
But somehow it struck me that
"okay you take this and you take that"
This kind of giving excuses and this kind of work,
is typical nature of an Indian.
You will be surprised, people who come to Cabella,
all of them stay with one another,
though they are very rich people, they have cars and everything,
still they would sleep in the pendal,
but Indians will have a special place for themselves,
they will stay in hotels and roam around in cars,
They do not have, even to a small extent,
any kind of sacrificing attitude.
They have not learnt how to sacrifice
this modernism is beyond me to understand.
Now, there are no servants in their houses.
So, they have no attached bath,
they have only one bathroom, because they only have to clean it.
You all have servants, so you can afford even ten-ten bathrooms.
But all these things are taking you away
from your own powers.
Your attention is going in useless things.
Frittering away of the attention in absurdities,
all these will make you a very ordinary human being.
Among women, it is fashion now-a-days to go to beaty parlours.
their face will remain the same.
They will spend money there, do this here and do that there.
In Pune, wife of Brahmins
will wear sleeveless dresses, use eye goggles,
And roam around in a moped,
not understandable.
In Pune, which is punya-pattanam (land of good deeds).
Is this the way to do good deeds?
This is how we are adopting western system,
without thinking, where is Shiva Tatva in this?
Look at Shri Shiva,
He is sitting with minimum of clothes.
In His marriage procession also He sat upon Nandi and went.
Why Nandi? Because Nandi is His disciple.
Whatever He says, Nandi will nod his head
He can tell Nandi anything, that's why Nandi is His dearest
desciple.
Now, He sat upon Nandi and arrived at His wedding venue
So, Parvati Ji had no objection,
but Her brother Vishnu Ji was little worried that,
Why the bridegroom is coming in this manner?
I do not mean that you become this kind of a groom,
I dont mean that, but, still to overdo things of the whole world
and spending unnecessarily is of no use.
Be sensible.
sensibility is your ornament.
To accept every thing, whatever is available, is alright
Food- alright.
Now, they will go to someone's house for food
and keep critisizing the host.
may not be on their face but will come home and say
" what kind of food was that?",
If someone has cooked good food, still they will say,
"you also cook the same way".
The whole day attention on taste of the tongue is,
too much in India, beyond the limit.
And this should be reduced a bit.
These people (foreign Yogis) eat your Indian food,
I have never heard any complaint.
Although, you can never eat their Western food.
But the way you have coated your whole self,
will not let you get into the deeper jpy.
The joy of Lord Shiva,
to achieve that, People had told,
that you renounce every thing, first renounce the world
Go to Himalyas and stand on one leg.
Wear minimum of clothes.
Take a dip in the river and then meditate with wet clothes.
they used to torture the body.
Even these days Gurus beat their disciples.
They trouble a lot, realisation is not given so easily, no way.
After giving all the trouble, then the desciples get realization.
but their realization establishes them.
strongly.
But you all have realization just like that
and your previous habits are still linger on.
THese problems are still with you, now what tod o with them?
they need to be shaken off you.
All these things which we have accumalated
need to be pushed away, totally finished.
And for that there is no need to make a show,
renounce the world or leave the home and family.
Any kind of,
Dravidi Pranyamas (holding the breath) are not required.
But one thing is a must,
your temptation of the taste buds,
should be reduced slowly.
Tastelessness should come inside you.
it is very important.
tasteleness of the tongue is a great quality.
People get enraged if they do not get food of their own choice.
They throw away their plates, beat their servants and what not?
If you can conquer your taste buds,
then many sweet shops will close down, in my openiun (laughs).
However,
I mean to say that,
the body should not be given much importance.
If the body is given the comfort
and supposing you sleep on a cot, you can't sleep on the ground.
then for ten days sleep on the ground.
How can you not sleep like that?
Without enslaving your body, you cannot achieve anything.
The talk about your comfort should come to an end.
Many people are there who can not travel by bus.
Because they want to go by car.
Then borrow car from here, from there, sit in this car, that car
But none of them will think
"come, let me travel by bus today and see what happens?
And earlier there were no buses also, people used to walk
When we were in school, we used to walk five miles daily,
though we had car and everything.
Such were the parents of mine.
But we were very fond of walking bare foot,,
And without shoes, carry slippers in hand.
Because of the vibrations it felt good to walk on the earth.
You should also
make the habit of walking without shoes and slippers.
It is very important and very beneficiary.
Mother earth will have your vibration and you wil alsol feel nice.
In every field we have become too much of comfort loving people.
We have become Just like few Nawabs of earlier days.
And what did they get? we can get nothing from that.
our lives whole will be wasted by becoming slaves to eaeryone.
we have to reduce this slavery,
and establish within us the essence (tatva) of Param Shiva.
And for that it is essential that nothing else is important
Today dress-up like this, tomorrow wear that dress,
and with that this should match and this and so on.
Whatever is available accept.
Whatever comes your way wear that.
It is alright, You will not be in any trouble because of that.
On the contrary you will be happy that you are a contented person.
Whatever I got, I have accepted wholeheartedly.
Now a days, in our Nagpur,
I don't know if the situatoin is same here also,
the cost of the gas sylinder has gone up by 16 RS.
The photos of the women who opposed this came in the paper,
all well dressed and made-up.
I said that their powder iyself must be worth Rupees fifteen.
Why should these kind of people go on a strike, for name's sake.
What for?
Because of the increase by 15 Rs.
Can't they see that their salary also has increased.
Earlier, Supposing, we were paying Rupees 20-25 to our servants,
Today we pay 2500 Rs.
He also complains, though he gets clothes and other things also.
salaries are increased so much, would not the prices increase?
When the salary increases, costs also rise up.
There is a story that in Sri Lanka, labors were given
one gold brick a day.
One person went to recieve gold bricks.
He found that, after working for one day
he recieved two glod bricks.
after that he went to a barber shop for shave.
He asked the barber “What are the charges?” “Two bricks”.
As the income, so the expenses.
It is a mtter of descretion.
what is the point in grumbling over the price rise, this and that.
How much your salary has risen? By a huge number.
Then why to keep crying about the price rise?
When the salary increases, price-hike has to happen.
Your salary has increased and the prices to remain as it is?
Its a very simple thing, if we learn this,
then socially also we could achieve Shiv Tattva.
Now, Gandhi Ji was an amazing person.
I was with Him in his Ashram, nothing used to happen to me.
But others used to cry.
Because His policy was,
AAAA! clean everyone's bathroom, everyone's,
guest's and everyone's, there was no sweeper at all.
(Shri Mataji laughing)
Wash your own clothes, wash your own plates.
And the meal consisted of boiled food with mustard oil on top of it.
Now, tell me how many Indians can eat that type of food?
People used to stay there for 2-3 days and then run away.
This was the situation.
Now, you people also should learn to controle your taste buds.
Now, as far as tastelessness is concerned,
I don't know how you can develop that,
But you should eat only boiled food for a few days.
No mother would say such a thing to her children,
what do I do? It is damaging your Shiva Tattva in you.
If all of your attention is in eating tasty food,
then your Shiva Tattva will disappear
and all the efforts taken will go a waste.
So, to get engrossed too much in eating, is not so good.
In olden days people used to observe fasts once a while,
something or the other,
They used to sacrifice.
But now a days it is very difficult to say,
that if you become contented, become satisfied,
then it is not necessary for you, absolutely not required,
that all the time you talk about eating and drinking
and invite others for supper.
Then in India we have caste system.
Kayasth are separate,
Hindu brahmins are separate, and others are separate, even now.
Now what has happened,
is that all the kayashth Sahaja Yogis have become one group,
Brahmin Sahaja Yogis have become one,
Now you all have become Sahaja Yogis,
then why are you still worried about brahminism?
Then kayasth will invite other kayasths  for a meal.
And Brahmin will invite other brahmins for a meal.
If you have to do this kind of stupidity,
then why did you come to Sahaja Yoga?
There is no Caste and creed in Sahaja Yoga.
When you could not leave the fundamental wrong thing,
then what else can you leave?
Did Shiv Ji have caste and creed?
People with one blind eye,
some with broken leg, some with broken hands,
this kind of handicapped people
accompanied Him in His marriage procession.
So, it is against Shiva Tattva to be concerned too much about,
food that "I am very perticular that the food should be like this".
And then separate food for Kayasth, separate for Brahmins,
separate for other casts and separate for Rajputs,
separate for every one.
Now, we want only that food.
I have never understood, till date I could not understand,
if there is more pleasure in eating different foods,
then why do these people ask only this type of food.
What is the reason? For Bengalies Bengali food,
For Madrasis, Madrasi food,
Once I asked in our airforce,
I mean in airlines why there is no good standard food?
They said "mother, tell us which is India's standard food"?
That is very true?
If you prepare some food, they will say "this is madrasi food".
Madrasi will say "this is Bihari food", this and that and that.
So, you should know to eat all types of food.
Because everything starts from the mouth itself.
This Vaikhari (Marathi word)
Meaning tongue,
in our tongue also (while we speak) there should be sweetness)
(not clear)
In the smiles of some people it feels sometimes,
as if Ravana is emerging out of their mouth.
Then what can be said about their speech?
And when they talk, it feels as if some chandika is talking,
perticularly women exhibit this.
And men also display such action.
different peculiar things have come up now
In this
Where is Shiva Tattva?
Lord Shiva is the ocean of love,
He bestows boons even on Rakshasas.
Lord Shiva has bestowed boons even on rakshasas.
If we have to awaken His Tattava within us,
then how could we get entangled in petty matters like this?
How can we do this? Tell me.
The way in which we criticize each other
Some say he is "high"  some say he is" low"
it is not like Lord Shiva.
The streams of love are flowing within Lord Shiva,
And while flowing in this ocean of love –
you should not say
such baseless things.
There is no use of it.
Mutual love,
mutual understanding
and
joy among one another should be enjoyed.
Now it is definite,
that Sahaja Yogis do not fight with each other, I have seen that.
they meet each other they meet with love.
But still,
even now very petty matters which are very personnel,
like eating- drinking, getting around and moving around
need to be corrected.
If we do that it will be wonderful.
Your attention will go towards your heart,
will not remain in these things.
Will not stay in these matters.
This disorder is more in foreign countries.
Because there, one better than the other,
manufacturing units are available for different things.
And the wearer of those things starts thinking very high of himself.
Perticulerly in Italy this is too much in vogue.
But
you should not get caught in all these things.
You Lead a simple life.
In our country, people who lead a simple life
have attained great heights.
Others can not achieve this.
In olden days, since Gandhi Ji asked every one to wear Khadi cloth,
everyone obeyed and wore khadi.
He made this rule
and set everybody right.
But now you have to set yourself right.
Because you yourself are
enlightened by your spirits.
You are under the direct protection of Shri Shiva.
You have to correct your own self.
You don't need to correct others,
Just correct yourself,
and feel blessed that you are a self realized person.
How many were there earlier?
Only a few of them and they also used to get killed.
Today you are in thousands, So start doing this.
Sweetness in your talk,
not superficially but from the heart.
when you talk to people from your heart, no one mistakes it.
So you talk from your heart.
With children, with elderly people,
following the bounderies of good conduct,
when you make yourself happy,
you will make others also happy.
But, within you  this
blessings of Shri Shiva should be there,
which can make you contented,
Nothing else can make you that.
So look within yourself and see if "I am contented or not?
"Am I satisfied or not"?
"Do I quarrel with others over small – small things"?
"Or find faults with them"?
Then definitely there is something wrong with me.
And, by putting your attention on that also, you can get cleansed.
Until you see your shortcomings, how could you cleanse them?
This cleansing is much needed.
And only by this cleansing,
You can visualize that God almighty within yourself,
And other people also can this bliss.
Infinite blessings.
It's a very long lecture I have given in Hindi language;
and because there are very few, also, Sahaja Yogis from abroad.
What I was telling them was that about the
Principle of Shiva is in your heart,
and that reflection is
not on a chakra, but on a… like a mirror.
Now, whatever is aaaa visible of you
is this mirror.
In this mirror, what reflection you have?
Do you have a reflection, which is clear, clean?
Have you cleaned your heart,
have you cleaned your aaaann  mirror that is reflecting?
That is what one has to see.
Now, what I told them at length was this, that how
there are six enemies we have got.
And all these six enemies, one after another, try to corrupt us.
Out of that, I have told them about five,
The sixth one doesn’t exist much in India, which we call as lust,
it's much less.
But, for foreign countries one has to know
that it is one of the major things that they have
in the West, because they think lustful life,
is the only life worth living.
Beyond that, is Shiva.
And that’s why we have to understood,
that we have to understand that in our heart,
the reflection of Shiva is only possible,
in complete form when we have cleaned our heart.
To have malice for others, to have lust for others,
to have anger for others,
to have envy for others,
all these reactions within us act,
and our heart becomes like a stone, it cannot reflect.
So, if you have to reflect
the quality of Shiva, which is very important today,
in this Kali Yuga.
very… there are very few people who are really reflecting
the image of Shiva in their own character.
So, it is important to watch yourself and see for yourself,
what’s wrong with you? Where am I… where is my attention going?
Where am I going? What am I doing?
If you go on judging yourself and not others.
Also, in… one of the western things is that, they have a
aaaan right to criticize others, everybody.
I like it, I don’t like it”.
Who are you? Why do you say such a thing?
Somebody had made a beautiful, say, arrangement for you;
you sit in his house and nicely say, “I don’t like it,”
to hurt that person.
After all, who are you? What do you think of yourself?
Who are you to judge?
For Sahaja Yoga… Yogis, is prohibited
to say, “I like” and “I don’t like.”
Is prohibited.
Look at Shiva. He likes everything.
What He wears? Also snakes.
He likes all kinds of animals.
Every type of thing
that we think is not good, ugly, for Him they are not.
For example, in His wedding He took with Him, in His “Barat”,
people who were all infirm.
Some people had one leg; some people had
limbs broken down, Some had only one eye.
All such people He carried with them.
To Him, these people were very dear and He looked after them,
because He is the source of joy.
He is the One who gives us joy.
And the One that makes us joyous.
The real joy is only possible if, in your heart,
His reflection is there.
But if your heart is full of all things,
that once I have described, it becomes a dirty,
very, very dirty mirror.
Very surprising, I told them also, compared to Indians,
Westerners are not so particular… Western Sahaja Yogis
are not so particular about their comfort.
Though they come from a very materialistic surrounding,
they are not so much bothered.
They can live anywhere, they can be happy anywhere.
That’s a very good stage they have reached and that’s what’s
the Indians must try to follow
and don’t pay attention to nonsensical things.
It is not necessary to waste your energy on nonsensical thing.
Then only you can have a real Bhakti for
your Self, for your Atma
and that is what needed today, that your Spirit should shine
in your character, in your behavior and in your personality.
If that happens, then you have achieved,
what Sahaja Yoga wanted to do for you.
Is important today, very important. If you read
the newspapers, you can’t read it.
And what you need is to change; the transformation;
as we in Hindi call it ‘pariwartan’,
of human beings into Selfhood, into Self-awareness,
into the Spirit.
This has to be done, and the time has come;
this evolutionary process has started.
There are so many of them who have got it.
Now the old saints and
people who were gurus, real gurus,
they used to really
test the disciples
by making them stand on their heads for years together,
sometimes put them in the water, do all kinds of things.
They used to beat them and they were very harsh,
testing all of them.
And then only, one of them used to get realization.
Now, what I thought of – its takes too much time,
to cleanse them,
to put them into all kinds of dresses, this that,
send them to Himalayas or to Gobi Desert.
I thought it will take too much time.
I said why not first enlighten them?
Give them the light.
In that light they can see their problems
and they will themselves correct themself.
They will be their own guru, and it was successful.
It was good.
Now you can see for yourself what you are doing,
what is your problem, what makes you
so much different from others
and what will elevate you.
Because Sadashiva’s place is above the head,
above your thoughts, above your mind,
above your emotions. It’s here,
and you have to cross this limit.
Only when you do not react to things, and also
to you nothing is important than Shiva,
then only it will work out.
So, in some things Indians have to learn,
and in some things you foreigners have to learn.
So many things you have done, I must thank you very much.
People used to think that I cannot do anything.
you have given up drinking,
you have given up all kinds of bad habits,
you are no more womanizers, your attention is so clean,
so many things you have done, which is really praise-worthy.
But still, you must learn that still,
there are certain things lingering, which must be cleared out
and must be absolutely finished.
You don’t have very much politics
but sometimes there is also politics, aaah group forming is there.
All this has to go away, because for Shiva,
what is this? The whole universe is at His feet.
To Him
to have a one group here and a one group there,
all that doesn’t matter.
To Him, it doesn’t come into His head, you see.
For a person like a very big ocean, it touches many shores.
But in itself it is a big ocean, In the same way is Shiva principle,
and you all should develop that principle of Shiva.
And then see the joy.
the joy of this great ocean of love.
May God bless you.